---
date: 2024-09-08
title: Data-Driven survey
tags:
  - articleSurvey
  - DataDriven
---

## Fist Glance (Interesting articles)
### ==AUV-enabled adaptive underwater surveying for optimal data collection==
A new adaptive strategy for performing data collection with a sonar-equipped autonomous underwater vehicle (AUV) is proposed. The approach is general in the sense that it is applicable to a wide range of underwater tasks that rely on subsequent processing of side-looking sonar imagery. By intelligently allocating resources and immediately reacting to the data collected in-mission, the proposed approach simultaneously maximizes the information content in the data and decreases overall survey time. These improvements are achieved by adapting the AUV route to prevent portions of the mission area from being either characterized by poor image quality or obscured by shadows caused by sand ripples. The peak correlation of consecutive sonar returns is used as a measure for image quality. To detect the presence of and estimate the orientation of sand ripples, a new innovative algorithm is developed. The components of the overall data-driven path-planning algorithm are purposely constructed to permit fast real-time execution with only minimal AUV onboard processing capabilities. Experimental results based on real sonar data collected at sea are used to demonstrate the promise of the proposed approach.
**2011**
https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s11370-011-0102-y

### Adaptive exploration of benthic habitat using Gaussian processes
A new adaptive strategy for performing data collection with a sonar-equipped autonomous underwater vehicle (AUV) is proposed. The approach is general in the sense that it is applicable to a wide range of underwater tasks that rely on subsequent processing of side-looking sonar imagery. By intelligently allocating resources and immediately reacting to the data collected in-mission, the proposed approach simultaneously maximizes the information content in the data and decreases overall survey time. These improvements are achieved by adapting the AUV route to prevent portions of the mission area from being either characterized by poor image quality or obscured by shadows caused by sand ripples. The peak correlation of consecutive sonar returns is used as a measure for image quality. To detect the presence of and estimate the orientation of sand ripples, a new innovative algorithm is developed. The components of the overall data-driven path-planning algorithm are purposely constructed to permit fast real-time execution with only minimal AUV onboard processing capabilities. Experimental results based on real sonar data collected at sea are used to demonstrate the promise of the proposed approach.
**2010**
https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1002/rob.20372

### Optimizing AUV oceanographic surveys
The objective of an oceanographic survey is to obtain the best understanding of the phenomena under study for a given amount of expended effort. This problem is complicated by the fact that the ocean usually evolves on a time scale comparable to (or faster than) the survey time. The ideal survey would be accomplished instantaneously and with infinite resolution. However, as platform limitations preclude such synoptic surveys, compromises between resolution, total survey time, and vehicle speed must be made. This paper presents a framework for optimizing uniform surveys of temporally evolving scalar fields under platform introduced constraints. Knowledge of the statistical characteristics of the ocean and the dominant physical processes are assumed. Advection is assumed to be negligible as a driving factor in temporal variations. The survey error, given by the squared difference between the true and reconstructed field, is determined as a function of the survey parameters. These in turn are subject to the physical limitations of the vehicle. Combining these constraints, we arrive at a tool which can be used to maximize survey efficiency and to assess relative efficiencies of various adaptive sampling techniques.
**1996**
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/532439

### Evolutionary path planning for autonomous underwater vehicles in a variable ocean
This paper proposes a genetic algorithm (GA) for path planning of an autonomous underwater vehicle in an ocean environment characterized by strong currents and enhanced space-time variability. The goal is to find a safe path that takes the vehicle from its starting location to a mission-specified destination, minimizing the energy cost. The GA includes novel genetic operators that ensure the convergence to the global minimum even in cases where the structure (in space and time) of the current field implies the existence of different local minima. The performance of these operators is discussed. The proposed algorithm is suitable for situations in which the vehicle has to operate energy-exhaustive missions.

**2004**
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/1315730
### A technique for autonomous underwater vehicle route planning
If an underwater vehicle is to be completely autonomous, it must have the ability to plan paths around obstacles in order to operate safely. Many solutions to the problem of planning the path of a robot around obstacles have been proposed, but all are limited in some way. An algorithm using artificial potential fields to aid in path planning is presented. The planning consists of applying potential fields around obstacles and using these fields to select a safe path. The advantage of using potential fields is that they offer a relatively fast and effective way to solve for safe paths. A trial path is chosen and then modified under the influence of the potential field until an appropriate path is found. By considering the entire path, the problem of being trapped in a local minimum is greatly reduced, allowing the method to be used for global planning. The algorithm was tried with success on many different planning problems. The examples provided illustrate the algorithm's application to two- and three-dimensional planning problems
**1990**
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/107148
### Coverage path planning: the boustrophedon cellular decomposition
Coverage path planning is the determination of a path that a robot must take in order to pass over each point in an environment. Applications include vacuuming, floor scrubbing, and inspection. We developed the boustrophedon cellular decomposition, which is an exact cellular decomposition approach, for the purposes of coverage. Each cell in the boustrophedon is covered with simple back and forth motions. Once each cell is covered, then the entire environment is covered. Therefore, coverage is reduced to finding an exhaustive path through a graph which represents the adjacency relationships of the cells in the boustrophedon decomposition. This approach is provably complete and Experiments on a mobile robot validate this approach.
**1997**
https://www.ri.cmu.edu/pub_files/pub4/choset_howie_1997_3/choset_howie_1997_3.pdf

### Path planning for autonomous underwater vehicles
Efficient path-planning algorithms are a crucial issue for modern autonomous underwater vehicles. Classical path-planning algorithms in artificial intelligence are not designed to deal with wide continuous environments prone to currents. We present a novel Fast Marching (FM)-based approach to address the following issues. First, we develop an algorithm we call FM* to efficiently extract a 2-D continuous path from a discrete representation of the environment. Second, we take underwater currents into account thanks to an anisotropic extension of the original FM algorithm. Third, the vehicle turning radius is introduced as a constraint on the optimal path curvature for both isotropic and anisotropic media. Finally, a multiresolution method is introduced to speed up the overall path-planning process.
**2007**
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/4154833
### ==Combining random and data-driven coverage planning for underwater mine detection==
Unmanned autonomous vehicles are proving themselves to be effective means for conducting underwater mine hunting missions. The resulting efficiency, reduced search time, and covert search possibilities will facilitate larger mission areas requiring many agents searching for significant lengths of time (e.g., many weeks or months). In search areas of this scale, complete area coverage may not always be feasible. Therefore, this research investigates a path planning scheme for incomplete coverage. This scheme divides the search area into cells and surveys each cell using a conventional line-sweep pattern with a row spacing that is larger than the sensor footprint. The rows of the line-sweep pattern are randomly spaced near the boundaries of each cell to decrease the probability of missing a line of evenly spaced mines. The spacing of the rows near the center of each cell are specifically determined from estimated possible mine locations. Bounds placed on the row spacing limits the amount of uncovered area to maintain an acceptable probability of detection. This method results in a probability of missing a mine that is less than the percent of unsearched area.
**2003**
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/1282934
### On optimal AUV track-spacing for underwater mine detection
This work addresses the task of designing the optimal survey route that an autonomous underwater vehicle (AUV) should take in mine countermeasures (MCM) operations. It is assumed that the AUV is equipped with a side-looking sonar that is capable of generating high-resolution imagery of the underwater environment. The objective of the path-planning task is framed in terms of maximizing the success of detecting underwater mines in such imagery. Several commonly made - but inaccurate - assumptions about the problem are raised and refuted; it is demonstrated that mine detection performance depends on both range and seabed type. The issue of how to update detection probabilities when multiple views are obtained is also addressed. These various considerations are exploited in conjunction with synthetic aperture sonar (SAS) data to predict detection performance and efficiently design AUV routes that outperform standard ladder surveys. The proposed algorithm can be used to assess and quantify detection performance achieved in past, as well as future, missions. Because the entire route of the AUV can still be designed before deployment, no additional onboard processing or adaptive capabilities are required of the AUV. Therefore, the proposed approach can be immediately applied to systems conducting MCM operations at sea. The method is demonstrated on real SAS imagery collected by an AUV in the Baltic Sea.
**2010**
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/5509435/citations#citations
### MEDUSA: Marine benthic Ecological Data from Underwater imagery Surveys of sub-Antarctic Crozet environments
Inscribed on the UNESCO World Heritage list, the sub-Antarctic Crozet archipelago is located in a region facing significant environmental changes impacting a poorly known marine biodiversity. Underwater imagery constitutes a valuable non-invasive approach for gathering ecological data and improving our knowledge of ecosystems’ vulnerability. We here compiled two datasets, encompassing 17 video-imagery surveys of Crozet nearshore environments conducted in 2021 and 2022 at two sites of _Ile de la Possession_: _Baie du Marin_ and _Crique du Sphinx_. Faunal abundance and algal cover data related to each survey are also provided. A total of 755 images were analysed, comprising 52 faunal and 14 algal taxa identified in 2021, as well as 45 faunal and 14 algal taxa identified in 2022. Video-transects were performed in shallow waters by scuba divers using a GoPro®HERO7 multiple camera set-up, and in deeper waters using a remotely operated vehicle. These data provide a first baseline for biodiversity and ecosystem studies, and for monitoring the long-term dynamics of Crozet benthic habitats facing natural and anthropogenic disturbances.
**2024**
https://link.springer.com/article/10.1038/s41597-024-03460-4?fromPaywallRec=true
### A prior information-based coverage path planner for underwater search and rescue using autonomous underwater vehicle (AUV) with side-scan sonar
The coverage path planning (CPP) technique attracts growing interest in studies on underwater search and rescue (SAR) conducted with an autonomous underwater vehicle (AUV) equipped with a side-scan sonar (SSS). In SAR missions, prior information is crucial. Aiming at the underwater SAR mission with prior information, a new coverage path planner (SAR-A*) is proposed. The ultimate goal is to generate a feasible path for completely covering the task area and preferentially visiting more valuable cells with fewer turns. First, the whole task area is decomposed into hexagon cells as waypoints to be visited for complete coverage. Second, the probability of discovering the target is obtained according to the target presence probability and the SSS detection ability. Under the assumption of prior target information, the target presence probability is modelled as a two-dimension Gaussian distribution based on predicted target locations or trajectories. Then, an optimal next-waypoint selection process is formulated as a multi-objective decision-making problem and solved by the weighted metric method. Finally, simulation and experimental results demonstrate that the generated path can improve the cumulative probability of discovering the target with fewer turns.
**2023**
https://ietresearch.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1049/rsn2.12256
### Improved hybrid node localization using the wild horse optimization in the underwater environment
This paper introduces an improved DV-hop-based localization technique to solve the link failure problem without using extra hardware during the continuous localization process because of the uncertainty of the underwater channel, limited energy resources, and technical glitches. On the other hand, low accuracy and poor stability are the main problems of the traditional DV-hop technique. This paper also introduces a hybrid TDoA-DV hop algorithm to overcome these problems and evaluate the position of the target nodes. In this algorithm, the average hop distance is replaced with improved hop distance to suppress the hop distance error, and the Wild Horse Optimization (WHO) algorithm is used for position estimation to find out the best and fast optimum location of the target node and achieve better accuracy and stability. The experimental result of the proposed work is compared to existing works, including the traditional DV-hop, improved DV-hop, and improved shortest path +PSO. The simulation result shows that the proposed method improves the average accuracy by 67.9%, 56.24%, and 3.6%, and stability by 61.9%, 45.9%, and 5.15% approximately. The recommended technique is useful for localization in any static ad-hoc wireless or underwater sensor network due to its better accuracy and stability.
**2023**
https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s13198-021-01388-1
### Ruled Path Planning Framework for Safe and Dynamic Navigation
The need for vehicle autonomy is constantly increasing, requiring increased load of on-board processing. However, most of low-cost agents are not able to handle the workload in real-time. In this paper, a path planning framework is presented for safe and dynamic navigation in multi-dimension environments. It is design to minimise the computational power required while remaining able to quickly adapt. For this, a highly Paramatrised Rapidly-exploring Random Graph (PRRG) is developed along side a system of rules allowing dynamic node selection and the D* Lite search algorithm to create the path. All of the graph parameters can be changed dynamically, making the graph able to adapt to the environment in real-time. Eventually, an extension for custom node generation is proposed, enabling specific routes to be created online which is especially relevant for survey and inspection applications. Although this framework was made for navigation of Autonomous Underwater Vehicles (AUVs), it can find applications to other domains such as navigation of Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs). The capabilities of the framework are demonstrated considering an underwater ship hull inspection scenario and confirmed its usefulness and effectiveness for real-time operations.
**2021**
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9705699
### ==Coverage Path Planning With Track Spacing Adaptation for Autonomous Underwater Vehicles==
In this letter we address the mine countermeasures (MCM) search problem for an autonomous underwater vehicle (AUV) surveying the seabed using a side-looking sonar. We propose a coverage path planning method that adapts the AUV track spacing with the objective of collecting better data. We achieve this by shifting the coverage overlap at the tail of the sensor range where the lowest data quality is expected. To assess the algorithm, we collected data from three at-sea experiments. The adaptive survey allowed the AUV to recover from a situation where the sensor range was overestimated and resulted in reducing area coverage gaps. In another experiment, the adaptive survey showed a 4.2% improvement in data quality for nearly 30% of the 'worst' data.
**2020**
https://www.webofscience.com/wos/woscc/full-record/WOS:000545428400019
### Horizontal path following for underactuated AUV based on dynamic circle guidance
A 2D path following control method for Autonomous Underwater Vehicles (AUVs) based on dynamic circle heading modification (DCHM) is presented. The method makes a dynamic auxiliary circle, whose radius depends on the cross- track error e, to intersect the desired path to get a new expected path point, and then determines a modified expected heading for the AUV. The guidance function is achieved by a direct mapping between e and the heading modification value psi(m). Several cases are tested in order to demonstrate the performance of the guidance and control method based on DCHMs for a real AUV. Results show that methods using a convex mapping function between e and psi(m) based on our new idea can easily achieve a better convergence of path following, and reduce the error between the actual and desired heading angles. We can also customize a discretionary mapping between e and psi(m) to get better path following performance.
**2017**
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/robotica/article/abs/horizontal-path-following-for-underactuated-auv-based-on-dynamic-circle-guidance/025E4A826EED6A62F884DB81B413AC3B

### ==Event-Based Path-Planning and Path-Following in Unknown Environments for Underactuated Autonomous Underwater Vehicles==
The paper addresses path planning and path-following problems in an unknown complex environment for an underactuated autonomous underwater vehicle (AUV). The AUV is required to follow a given reference path represented as a sequence of smoothly joined lines and arcs, bypassing obstacles encountered on the path. A two-level control system is proposed with an upper level for event-driven path planning and a lower level for path-following. A discrete event system is designed to identify situations that require planning a new path. An improved waypoint guidance algorithm and a Dubins curves based algorithm are proposed to build paths that allow the AUV to avoid collision with obstacles and to return to the reference path respectively. Both algorithms generate paths that meet the minimum turning radius constraint. A robust parameter-varying controller is designed using sublinear vector Lyapunov functions to solve the path-following problem. The performance of the developed event-based control system is demonstrated in three different simulation scenarios: with a sharp-edged obstacle, with a U-shaped obstacle, and with densely scattered obstacles. The proposed scheme does not require significant computing resources and allows for easy implementation on board.
**2020**
https://www.mdpi.com/2076-3417/10/21/7894
### Towards innovative approaches of team-oriented mission planning and mission languages for multiple unmanned marine vehicles in event-driven mission
This paper provides an overview on possibilities to design a common mission language for mission planning of heterogeneous autonomous marine robots that have to perform challenging mission scenarios as parts of a larger group over unstructured terrain. The required concept must therefore be suited for event-driven behavior of the vehicles and allow for high flexibility online. Also, in order to be suited for the usage within the research project MORPH, it must be adaptable to heterogeneous marine robots from a large group of different providers. Furthermore, the mission plans shall be readable by a human operator. In this paper, we will discuss these issues and present the results of the specification phase of the mentioned research project.
**2013**
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/6608065
### ==Cooperative Search and Survey Using Autonomous Underwater Vehicles (AUVs)==
In this work, we study algorithms for cooperative search and survey using a fleet of Autonomous Underwater Vehicles (AUVs). Due to the limited energy, communication range/bandwidth, and sensing range of the AUVs, underwater search and survey with multiple AUVs brings about several new challenges since a large amount of data needs to be collected by each AUV, and any AUV may fail unexpectedly. To address the challenges and meet our objectives of minimizing the total survey time and traveled distance of AUVs, we propose a cooperative rendezvous scheme called Synchronization-Based Survey (SBS) to facilitate cooperation among a large number of AUVs when surveying a large area. In SBS, AUVs form an intermittently connected network (ICN) in that they periodically meet each other for data aggregation, control signal dissemination, and AUV failure detection/recovery. Numerical analysis and simulations have been performed to compare the performance of three variants of SBS schemes, namely, Alternating Column Synchronization (ACS), Strict Line Synchronization (SLS), and X Synchronization (XS). The results show that XS can outperform other SBS schemes in terms of the survey time and the traveled distance of AUVs. We also compare XS with nonsynchronization-based survey and the lower bound on the survey time and traveled distance. The results show that XS achieves a close to optimal performance.
**2011**
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/5467054
### ==AUV Adaptive Sampling Methods: A Review==
Autonomous underwater vehicles (AUVs) are unmanned marine robots that have been used for a broad range of oceanographic missions. They are programmed to perform at various levels of autonomy, including autonomous behaviours and intelligent behaviours. Adaptive sampling is one class of intelligent behaviour that allows the vehicle to autonomously make decisions during a mission in response to environment changes and vehicle state changes. Having a closed-loop control architecture, an AUV can perceive the environment, interpret the data and take follow-up measures. Thus, the mission plan can be modified, sampling criteria can be adjusted, and target features can be traced. This paper presents an overview of existing adaptive sampling techniques. Included are adaptive mission uses and underlying methods for perception, interpretation and reaction to underwater phenomena in AUV operations. The potential for future research in adaptive missions is discussed.
**2019**
https://www.mdpi.com/2076-3417/9/15/3145
### Current advancements on autonomous mission planning and management systems: An AUV and UAV perspective
Advances in hardware technology have enabled more integration of sophisticated software, triggering progresses in development and employment of [Unmanned Vehicles](https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/earth-and-planetary-sciences/unmanned-vehicle "Learn more about Unmanned Vehicles from ScienceDirect's AI-generated Topic Pages") (UVs), and mitigating restraints for onboard intelligence. As a result, UVs can now take part in more complex mission where continuous transformation in environmental condition calls for higher level of situational responsiveness. This paper serves as an introduction to UVs mission planning and [management systems](https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/computer-science/system-management "Learn more about management systems from ScienceDirect's AI-generated Topic Pages") aiming to highlight some of the recent developments in the field of autonomous underwater and aerial vehicles in addition to stressing some possible future directions and discussing the learned lessons. A comprehensive survey over autonomy assessment of UVs, and different aspects of autonomy such as situation awareness, cognition, and decision-making has been provided in this study. The paper separately explains the humanoid and autonomous [system's performance](https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/engineering/systems-performance "Learn more about system's performance from ScienceDirect's AI-generated Topic Pages") and highlights the role and impact of a human in UVs operations.
**2019**
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1367578818300257
### Adaptive AUV mission management in under-informed situations
Autonomous Underwater Vehicles (AUVs) are in high demand within the offshore industry and maritime research, mainly used for bathymetry and data acquisition. The control architectures of these AUVs mimic this primary function by focusing on strict mission plans as these kind of application require, thus reducing the need for direct sensor reaction to emergency situations. The emerging needs for more complex underwater application like the inspection of structures, search missions or taking samples from the floor or in the water column with respect to certain environmental conditions demand more adaptive, currently not existing, control architectures. The main problem hereby is that, opposed to non-underwater application scenarios for autonomous systems, the lack of a stable communication channel to the vehicle demands complete autonomy. The architecture proposed in this paper aims at tackling the issue of unpredictability. The main issue, especially in exploration or inspection missions, is that little is known at the beginning of the mission. This lack of information makes planning meaningless, as the planner has no idea whatsoever as to what should be done while on site. Our proposed architecture offers to replace, in these under-informed situations, planning-based approaches by a plan management approach. This approach is able to use both predictive (planning) approaches and behaviours (reactive) approaches to control the system, which is then used to execute and control execution of functional components. The mixing of these decision-making schemes being done based on the information available to the system. This paper presents the general idea of our architecture as well as the implementation and a validation experiment with the AUV AVALON.
**2010**
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/5664350
### Event-Triggered H∞ Depth Control of Remotely Operated Underwater Vehicles
In this paper, using a novel event-triggered method, a robust H ∞ depth tracking controller is designed for a remotely operated underwater vehicle (ROV). It is assumed that the desired trajectory of the ROV is determined by an operator outside of the vehicle based on its needed depth and obstacles in its path. It is also assumed that a wireless network is used to connect the user with the ROV. To decrease the communication rate between the controller and the ROV, a novel nonlinear event-triggered H ∞ controller is designed. The effects of the disturbance on the system performance are also attenuated. Stability of the ROV under the designed event-triggered controller is proved through a theorem. Simulation results demonstrate that the error between the depth of the ROV and its time-varying desired trajectory converges to zero using the proposed eventtriggered H ∞ controller. It is also shown that the communication rate between the designed controller and the ROV is considerably reduced.
**2019**
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/8645810
### ==Distributed event-driven adaptive three-dimensional formation tracking of networked autonomous underwater vehicles with unknown nonlinearities==
This paper presents a distributed event-driven adaptive formation control strategy for networked uncertain nonlinear autonomous [underwater vehicles](https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/social-sciences/underwater-vehicles "Learn more about underwater vehicles from ScienceDirect's AI-generated Topic Pages") (AUVs) in three-dimensional space. It is assumed that the leader information is only transmitted to a subset of AUV followers under a directed graph and the nonlinearities of the AUV dynamics are unknown. A distributed error transformation method is presented to address the distributed formation [tracking problem](https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/earth-and-planetary-sciences/tracking-problem "Learn more about tracking problem from ScienceDirect's AI-generated Topic Pages") of AUV followers in three-dimensional space. Then, a distributed event-driven adaptive control method using [neural networks](https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/chemical-engineering/neural-network "Learn more about neural networks from ScienceDirect's AI-generated Topic Pages") and stabilizing [auxiliary](https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/chemical-engineering/auxiliaries "Learn more about auxiliary from ScienceDirect's AI-generated Topic Pages") signals is developed to ensure the stability of the event-driven closed-loop system and accomplish three-dimensional formation tracking in the Lyapunov stability sense. Additionally, it is shown that Zeno behavior does not occur in the resulting event-triggering strategy. A simulation demonstrates the effectiveness of the proposed theoretical methodology.
**2021**
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0029801821005047
### An Autonomous Underwater Vehicle Data-Driven Control Strategy for Target Tracking
This paper presents a data-driven approach to control the movement of autonomous underwater vehicles (AUVs) operating as receivers of a multistatic sonar surveillance network. The algorithm adopts a nonmyopic receding horizon policy to control the AUV heading, with the objective of minimizing the expected estimate error in the target location produced by the onboard tracker. Minimizing this error is of the utmost interest in target state estimation since it is one way of maintaining tracks. The proposed policy builds on an automated perception module which produces a target track and on an acoustic model to estimate the target measurement signal-to-noise ratio. Driven by the mission objectives, it explores the best decisions for the AUV by evaluating the evolution of the tactical situation over a future time window. Nonmyopic approaches can offer increased performance if compared to myopic ones. The downside is an increase of the computational burden. Methods are described to simplify and solve effectively the resulting decision tree to allow the execution of these kinds of computational intensive algorithms onboard autonomous vehicles. At the same time, they aim at producing AUV paths robust to possible misleading target measurements, which might cause meandering trajectories. These are crucial factors to use data-driven strategies for AUVs which must work in real applications. Results from the COLLAB13 sea trial are reported and discussed. They show both the feasibility of executing the algorithm in realtime on an onboard computer and the benefits of using the proposed approach over conventional predefined paths. These results are, to the best of our knowledge, the first successful demonstration at sea of a complex nonmyopic algorithm running in realtime onboard AUVs in a realistic multistatic littoral surveillance scenario.
**2018**
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/8291577
### Survey of Mission Planning and Management Architectures for Underwater Cooperative Robotics Operations
Almost every research project that focuses on the cooperation of autonomous robots for underwater operations designs their own architectures. As a result, most of these architectures are tightly coupled with the available robots/vehicles for their respective developments, and therefore the mission plan and management is done using an ad-hoc solution. Typically, this solution is tightly coupled to just one underwater autonomous vehicle (AUV), or a restricted set of them selected for the specific project. However, as the use of AUVs for underwater operations increases, there is the need to identify some commonalities and weaknesses of these architectures, specifically in relation to mission planning and management. In this paper, we review a selected number of architectures and frameworks that in one way or another make use of different approaches to mission planning and management. Most of the selected works were developed for underwater operations. Still, we have included some other architectures and frameworks from other domains that can be of interest for the survey. The explored works have been assessed using selected features related to mission planning and management, considering that underwater operations are performed in an uncertain and unreliable environment, and where unexpected events are not strange. Furthermore, we have identified and highlighted some potential challenges for the design and implementation of mission managers. This provides a reference point for the development of a mission manager component to be integrated in architectures for cooperative robotics in underwater operations, and it can serve for the same purposes in other domains of application.
**2020**
https://www.mdpi.com/2076-3417/10/3/1086

### Data-driven learning and modeling of AUV operational characteristics for optimal path planning
Autonomous underwater vehicles (AUVs) are used to execute an increasingly challenging set of missions in commercial, environmental and defense industries. The resources available to the AUV in service of these missions are typically a limited power supply and onboard sensing of its local environment. Optimal path planning is needed to maximize the chances that these AUVs will successfully complete long-endurance missions within their power budget. A time-optimal path planner has been recently developed to minimize AUV mission time required to traverse a dynamic ocean environment at a specified speed through the water. For many missions, time minimization is appropriate because the AUVs operate at a fixed propeller speed. However, the ultimate limiting constraint on AUV operations is often the onboard power supply, rather than mission time. While an empirical or theoretical relationship between mission time and power could be applied to estimate power usage in the path planner, the real power usage and availability on an AUV varies mission-to-mission, as a result of multiple factors, including vehicle buoyancy, battery charge cycle, fin configuration, and water type or quality. In this work, we use data collected from two mid-size AUVs operating in various conditions to learn the mission-to-mission variability in the power budget so that it could be incorporated into the mission planner.
**2017**
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/8084779
### Nonlinear-Observer-Based Design Approach for Adaptive Event-Driven Tracking of Uncertain Underactuated Underwater Vehicles
A nonlinear-observer-based design methodology is proposed for an adaptive event-driven output-feedback tracking problem with guaranteed performance of uncertain underactuated underwater vehicles (UUVs) in six-degrees-of-freedom (6-DOF). A nonlinear observer using adaptive neural networks is presented to estimate the velocity information in the presence of unknown nonlinearities in the dynamics of 6-DOF UUVs where a state transformation approach using a time-varying scaling factor is introduced. Then, an output-feedback tracker using a nonlinear error function and estimated states is recursively designed to overcome the underactuated problem of the system dynamics and to guarantee preselected control performance in three-dimensional space. It is shown that the tracking error of the nonlinear-observer-based output-feedback control system exponentially converges a small neighbourhood around the zero. Efficiency of the resulting output-feedback strategy is verified through a simulation.
**2021**
https://www.mdpi.com/2227-7390/9/10/1144
### An energy-efficient data collection protocol with AUV path planning in the Internet of Underwater Things
Internet of Underwater Things (IoUT) is primarily comprised of acoustic [sensor nodes](https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/computer-science/sensor-node "Learn more about sensor nodes from ScienceDirect's AI-generated Topic Pages"), which are mostly battery-powered. The [battery](https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/engineering/battery-electrochemical-energy-engineering "Learn more about battery from ScienceDirect's AI-generated Topic Pages") life of sensors is limited and it is inconvenient to recharge. However, these [sensor nodes](https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/engineering/sensor-node "Learn more about sensor nodes from ScienceDirect's AI-generated Topic Pages") form the Underwater [Wireless Sensor Networks](https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/engineering/wireless-sensor-network "Learn more about Wireless Sensor Networks from ScienceDirect's AI-generated Topic Pages") (UWSNs), which can be clustered to save a massive amount of energy. Nevertheless, the selection of [cluster head](https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/computer-science/cluster-head "Learn more about cluster head from ScienceDirect's AI-generated Topic Pages") (CH) is a key issue as CH has to spend additional energy for performing data collection and aggregation before transmitting the data towards the destination. On the other hand, autonomous underwater vehicles (AUVs) are recommended to bridge UWSN with surface devices or internet. Yet, finding a path AUV should follow is an open issue. In this work, we proposed a protocol that utilizes AUV to save energy wasted by sensor nodes during clustering. To be precise, AUV not only collects data, but it is also responsible for nominating the Cluster Head (CH) and creating a wakeup-sleep schedule for clusters. In addition, we present AUV traversal path that is aware of [residual energy](https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/engineering/residual-energy "Learn more about residual energy from ScienceDirect's AI-generated Topic Pages") in the network. Finally, an extensive [quantitative evaluation](https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/computer-science/quantitative-evaluation "Learn more about quantitative evaluation from ScienceDirect's AI-generated Topic Pages") of the proposed scheme against state of the art solutions is given.
**2019**
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1084804519300840
### ==A survey of underwater search for multi-target using Multi-AUV: Task allocation, path planning, and formation control==
There are significant advantages using the autonomous underwater vehicle (AUV) for underwater search. Compared with a single AUV, multi-AUV offers greater efficiency and better stability in underwater search. At the same time, the theoretical and technical level of [autonomous navigation](https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/physics-and-astronomy/autonomous-navigation "Learn more about autonomous navigation from ScienceDirect's AI-generated Topic Pages") and cooperative control of multi-AUV formation is the key to the implementation of the underwater search task. The following key factors are worth discussing in the application of multi-AUV in underwater search: task allocation, [path planning](https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/computer-science/path-planning "Learn more about path planning from ScienceDirect's AI-generated Topic Pages"), and [formation control](https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/computer-science/formation-control "Learn more about formation control from ScienceDirect's AI-generated Topic Pages"). The purpose of this paper is to grasp the application and development trend of multi-AUV formation in underwater search, so as to summarize the past, present, and future research and development trends of this investigation field in detail.
**2023**
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0029801823007771
### Receding-horizon sampling-based sensor-driven coverage planning strategy for AUV seabed inspections
Autonomous Underwater Vehicles (AUVs) are commonly used to autonomously explore or cover an entire area with a sensor to map the area or look for objects of interest using Automatic Target Recognition (ATR) algorithms. AUV surveys are typically pre-planned by operators, often using lawnmower or zig-zag paths, and are often conducted using acoustic sensors, such as Forward-Looking Sonars (FLS) and Side Scan Sonars (SSS). The performance of such acoustic sensors depends on several environmental, target, and sensor characteristics, which are difficult to predict, making it challenging to design a good path for the AUV tasks. Sensor-driven path planning algorithms emerged as an important tool to overcome such limitations. These solutions can avoid to perform several mission attempts, and thus reducing the time required for seabed inspections and explorations. The here presented work aims to investigate an AUV tailored sensor-driven path planning solution for seabed inspections using an FLS sensor, but suitable for any acoustic or optical sensor. A two-level planning layer system is presented where the well-known RRT* is used as a start-to-goal planner, while in the high-level planner, the possible next-best viewpoints are generated in an RRT fashion. Random trees are grown considering the Dubins vehicle kinematic constraints, where each node is evaluated according to the expected information gain. Besides, a rewiring strategy for coverage applications to find for each viewpoint the best parent is proposed. Simulation results demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed solution.
**2020**
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/9267903
### ==A Survey of Autonomous Underwater Vehicle Formation: Performance, Formation Control, and Communication Capability==
Autonomous underwater vehicles (AUVs) are submersible underwater vehicles controlled by onboard computers. AUV formation is a cooperative control which focuses on controlling multiple AUVs to move in a group while executing tasks. In contrast to a single AUV, multi-AUV formation represents higher efficiency and better stability for many applications, such as oil and gas industries, hydrographic surveys, and military missions, etc. To achieve better formation, there are several key factors, including AUV performance, formation control, and communication capability. However, most studies in the field of AUV formation mainly focus on formation control methods. We observe that the research of communication capability and AUV performance of multiple AUV formation is still in an early stage. It is beneficial to researchers to present a comprehensive survey of the state of the art of AUV formation research and development. In this paper, we study AUV, formation control, and underwater acoustic communication capability in detail. We propose a classification framework with three dimensions, including AUV performance, formation control, and communication capability. This framework provides a comprehensive classification method for future AUV formation research. It also can be used to compare different methods and help engineers choose suitable formation methods for various applications. Moreover, our survey discusses formation architecture with communication constraints and we identify some common misconceptions and questionable research for formation control related to communication.
**2021**
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/9356608
### Multiple AUVs for Ocean Phenomena Monitoring: A Review
Plumes happening underwater should be carefully monitored for the conservation of marine ecosystem. Various plumes such as oil spills, chemical plumes and Harmful Algal Blooms (HABs), their spatial and temporal scales are considered here. This review deals with the various approaches developed so far, to learn about the spatial and temporal variation of these phenomena using an effective network comprising of multiple Autonomous Underwater Vehicles (AUVs). This article further talks about the need of multi vehicle communication and the networking protocols involved in various layers such as physical, data link and network layers. The newer approach of cross layer protocol is also briefly discussed.
**2022**
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/9700726
### Hybrid-model based hierarchical mission control architecture for autonomous underwater vehicles
We present a hybrid, hierarchical architecture for mission control of autonomous underwater vehicles (AUVs). The architecture is model based and is designed with semiautomatic verification of safety and performance specifications as a primary capability in addition to the usual requirements such as real-time constraints, scheduling, shared-data integrity, etc. The architecture is realized using a commercially available graphical hybrid systems design and code generation tool. While the tool facilitates rapid redesign and deployment, it is crucial to include safety and performance verification into each step of the (re)design process. A formal model of the interacting hybrid automata in the design tool is outlined, and a tool is presented to automatically convert hybrid automata descriptions from the design tool into a format required by two hybrid verification tools. The application of this mission control architecture to a survey AUV is described and the procedures for verification outlined.
**2005**
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/1470034
### Survey on the Developments of Unmanned Marine Vehicles: Intelligence and Cooperation
With the recent development of artificial intelligence (AI) and information and communication technology, manned vehicles operated by humans used on the ground, air, and sea are evolving into unmanned vehicles (UVs) that operate without human intervention. In particular, unmanned marine vehicles (UMVs), including unmanned underwater vehicles (UUVs) and unmanned surface vehicles (USVs), have the potential to complete maritime tasks that are unachievable for manned vehicles, lower the risk of man power, raise the power required to carry out military missions, and reap huge economic benefits. The aim of this review is to identify past and current trends in UMV development and present insights into future UMV development. The review discusses the potential benefits of UMVs, including completing maritime tasks that are unachievable for manned vehicles, lowering the risk of human intervention, and increasing power for military missions and economic benefits. However, the development of UMVs has been relatively tardy compared to that of UVs used on the ground and in the air due to adverse environments for UMV operation. This review highlights the challenges in developing UMVs, particularly in adverse environments, and the need for continued advancements in communication and networking technologies, navigation and sound exploration technologies, and multivehicle mission planning technologies to improve UMV cooperation and intelligence. Furthermore, the review identifies the importance of incorporating AI and machine learning technologies in UMVs to enhance their autonomy and ability to perform complex tasks. Overall, this review provides insights into the current state and future directions for UMV development.
**2023**
https://www.mdpi.com/1424-8220/23/10/4643?type=check_updateversion%3D2
### Autonomous Underwater Vehicles (AUVs): Their past, present and future contributions to the advancement of marine geoscience
Autonomous Underwater Vehicles (AUVs) have a wide range of applications in [marine geoscience](https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/earth-and-planetary-sciences/marine-geology "Learn more about marine geoscience from ScienceDirect's AI-generated Topic Pages"), and are increasingly being used in the scientific, military, commercial, and policy sectors. Their ability to operate autonomously of a host vessel makes them well suited to exploration of extreme environments, from the world's deepest [hydrothermal vents](https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/earth-and-planetary-sciences/hydrothermal-vent "Learn more about hydrothermal vents from ScienceDirect's AI-generated Topic Pages") to beneath polar ice sheets. They have revolutionised our ability to image the seafloor, providing higher resolution [seafloor mapping](https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/earth-and-planetary-sciences/seafloor-mapping "Learn more about seafloor mapping from ScienceDirect's AI-generated Topic Pages") data than can be achieved from surface vessels, particularly in deep water. This contribution focuses on the major advances in marine geoscience that have resulted from AUV data. The primary applications are i) submarine [volcanism](https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/earth-and-planetary-sciences/volcanism "Learn more about volcanism from ScienceDirect's AI-generated Topic Pages") and hydrothermal vent studies, ii) mapping and monitoring of low-temperature fluid escape features and chemosynthetic ecosystems, iii) benthic habitat mapping in shallow- and deep-water environments, and iv) mapping of seafloor morphological features (e.g. [bedforms](https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/earth-and-planetary-sciences/bedform "Learn more about bedforms from ScienceDirect's AI-generated Topic Pages") generated beneath ice or sediment-gravity flows). A series of new datasets is presented that highlight the growing versatility of AUVs for marine geoscience studies, including i) multi-frequency acoustic imaging of trawling impacts on deep-water coral mounds, iii) collection of high-resolution seafloor photomosaics at abyssal depths, and iii) velocity measurements of active submarine density flows. Future developments in AUV technology of potential relevance to marine geoscience include new vehicles with enhanced hovering, long endurance, extreme depth, or rapid response capabilities, while development of new sensors will further expand the range of geochemical parameters that can be measured.
**2016**
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0025322714000747
### Fixed-Time Leader-Follower Formation Control of Autonomous Underwater Vehicles With Event-Triggered Intermittent Communications
This paper investigates a fixed-time leader-following formation control method for a set of autonomous underwater vehicles (AUVs) with event-triggered acoustic communications. First, an event-triggering communication strategy is developed to govern the communications between leader AUV and follower AUVs. Then, using a fixed-time control theory and a Lyapunov functional method, a compensator-based command filtered formation control algorithm is proposed, with which the follower AUVs can track the leader AUV in a given fixed time. Namely, the control method can guarantee all the signals in the formation control system to be globally fixed-time stabilized. With the presented fixed-time control scheme, the predesignated AUVs formation can be achieved within a fixed settling time under arbitrary initial system states, which is otherwise impossible under any existing methods including finite-time control. Furthermore, the compensator-based command filtered control technique makes the designed formation control law simple and easy to implement in practice. Simulation results demonstrate the effectiveness of the method.
**2018**
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/8360936
### Improving the Modularity of AUV Control Systems using Behaviour Trees
In this paper, we show how behaviour trees (BTs) can be used to design modular, versatile, and robust control architectures for mission-critical systems. In particular, we show this in the context of autonomous underwater vehicles (AUVs). Robustness, in terms of system safety, is important since manual recovery of AUVs is often extremely difficult. Further more, versatility is important to be able to execute many different kinds of missions. Finally, modularity is needed to achieve a combination of robustness and versatility, as the complexity of a versatile systems needs to be encapsulated in modules, in order to create a simple overall structure enabling robustness analysis. The proposed design is illustrated using a typical AUV mission.
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/8729810
2019
### ==Adapting a Survey-Class AUV for High Resolution Seafloor Imaging==
https://dspace.mit.edu/bitstream/handle/1721.1/97029/MITSG_05-22.pdf?sequence=1&isAllowed=y
### ==Towards marine bloom trajectory prediction for AUV mission planning==
This paper presents an oceanographic toolchain that can be used to generate multi-vehicle robotic surveys for large-scale dynamic features in the coastal ocean. Our science application targets Harmful Algal Blooms (HABs) which have significant societal impact to coastal communities yet are poorly understood ecologically. Bloom patches can be large spatially (in kms) and unpredictable in their extent. To understand their ecology, we need to be able to bring back water samples from the right places and times for lab analysis. In doing so, we target hotspots representative of intense biogeochemical activity for such sampling. Our approach uses remote sensing data to detect such hotspots using ocean color as a proxy, and advectively projects these patches spatio-temporally using surface current data from HF Radar stations. Experiments with satellite and Radar data sets are promising for large, coherent blooms. We show how these predictions can be used to select an appropriate sampling trajectory for an AUV.
**2010**
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/5509930
### Search for Static Target in Nonwide Area by AUV: A Prior Data-Driven Strategy
This article presents a prior data-driven strategy to solve the motion planning problem of autonomous underwater vehicle (AUV) for the target search mission. Compared with the widely studied cases over wide marine area, however, this article focuses on searching static target that exists in nonwide area. First, under the assumption that the nonwide area could be regarded as a combination of lines or curves, we utilize the Parzen windows theory with one-dimensional Gaussian kernels to generate the prior probability map of target based on the previous qualitative data. Then, we use the “global warming” method to extract some valuable subregions quantitatively, which will be visited by AUV in the optimal sequence. Finally, we verify the good performance of our method by an example of underwater pipeline inspection.
**2020**
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/9118956
### ==A Data-Driven Intermittent Online Coverage Path Planning Method for AUV-Based Bathymetric Mapping==
Bathymetric mapping with Autonomous Underwater Vehicles (AUVs) receives increased attentions in recent years. AUVs offer a lower operational cost and smaller carbon footprint with reduced ship usage, and they can provide higher resolution data when surveying the seabed at a closer distance if compared to ships. However, advancements are still needed to improve the data quality of AUV-based surveys. Unlike mobile robots with deterministic mapping performance, multibeam sonars used in AUV-based bathymetric mapping often yields inconsistent swath width due to the varied seabed elevation and surficial properties. As a result, mapping voids may exist between planned lawnmower transects. Although this could be solved by planning closer lawnmower paths, mission time increases proportionally. Therefore, an onboard path planner is demanded to assure the defined survey objective, i.e., coverage rate. Here in this paper, we present a new data-driven coverage path planning (CPP) method, in which the vehicle automatically updates the waypoints intermittently based on an objective function constructed using the information about the exploration preference, sonar performance, and coverage efficiency. The goal of the proposed method is to plan a cost-effective path on-the-fly to obtain high quality mapping result meeting the requirements in coverage rate and uncertainty. The proposed CPP method has been evaluated in a simulated environment with a 6DOF REMUS AUV model and a realistic seafloor topography. A series of trials has been conducted to investigate the performance affected by the parameters in the objective function. We also compared the proposed method with traditional lawnmower and spiral paths. The results show that the weight assignment in the objective function is critical as they affect the overall survey performance. With proper weight settings, the AUV yields better survey performance, coverage rate and coverage efficiency, compared to traditional approaches. Moreover, the proposed method can be easily adjusted or modified to achieve different coverage goals, such as rapid data gathering of the entire region, survey of irregular workspace, or maintaining real time path planning.
**2020**
https://www.mdpi.com/2076-3417/10/19/6688
### Towards fully autonomous underwater vehicles in ASW scenarios: An adaptive, data driven AUV mission management layer
We present an adaptive, data driven Mission Management Layer (MML) to manage the phases (surveillance, track prosecution and target reacquisition) of the mission of AUVs operating as receiver nodes in a multistatic network for littoral surveillance. Among the tracks produced by the on board tracker, the MML selects those which are likely originated by a target. The MML then issues commands to the vehicle Control Layer to trigger data-driven optimization behaviours to prosecute these candidate tracks. Selecting few candidate tracks is indeed crucial since the addressed scenario usually presents many tracks hence resulting challenging from the tracking point of view. To select the candidate tracks, a metric is introduced to quantify their quality. It is based on the kinematic features of the target, on an acoustic model and on the quality of measurement-to-track associations. By selecting a limited subset of produced tracks, the MML can improve the benefits of using data-driven behaviours activating them only on interesting cues and reducing the time wasted to optimize tracks not related to a target. This aims at achieving a balance between the surveillance of the area of interest and exploitation of target cues (tracks). These features are essential for improving the overall mission performance and for an effective AUV decision making in realistic conditions. We present results from sea trials demonstrating the effectiveness of our approach and how the proposed MML can represent a step forward towards the full autonomy of our system. These results represent one of the first examples of AUVs autonomously taking decisions in a realistic and complex littoral surveillance scenario.
**2015**
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/7271515
### Data-driven robotic sampling for marine ecosystem monitoring
Robotic sampling is attractive in many field robotics applications that require persistent collection of physical samples for ex-situ analysis. Examples abound in the earth sciences in studies involving the collection of rock, soil, and water samples for laboratory analysis. In our test domain, marine ecosystem monitoring, detailed understanding of plankton ecology requires laboratory analysis of water samples, but predictions using physical and chemical properties measured in real-time by sensors aboard an autonomous underwater vehicle (AUV) can guide sample collection decisions. In this paper, we present a data-driven and opportunistic sampling strategy to minimize cumulative regret for batches of plankton samples acquired by an AUV over multiple surveys. Samples are labeled at the end of each survey, and used to update a probabilistic model that guides sampling during subsequent surveys. During a survey, the AUV makes irrevocable sample collection decisions online for a sequential stream of candidates, with no knowledge of the quality of future samples. In addition to extensive simulations using historical field data, we present results from a one-day field trial where beginning with a prior model learned from data collected and labeled in an earlier campaign, the AUV collected water samples with a high abundance of a pre-specified planktonic target. This is the first time such a field experiment has been carried out in its entirety in a data-driven fashion, in effect “closing the loop” on a significant and relevant ecosystem monitoring problem while allowing domain experts (marine ecologists) to specify the mission at a relatively high level.
**2015**
https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/full/10.1177/0278364915587723
### An online path planning algorithm for autonomous marine geomorphological surveys based on AUV
This paper proposed a data-driven bi-pattern (DDBP) [path planning](https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/earth-and-planetary-sciences/trajectory-planning "Learn more about path planning from ScienceDirect's AI-generated Topic Pages") algorithm for ocean geomorphological surveys based on Autonomous Underwater Vehicles (AUVs). When an AUV conducts surveys in unknown areas, it uses the observation data of real-time side-scan sonar to conduct environment modeling to drive independent online path re-planning (PRP) according to the feature density of the interesting targets. Based on the DDBP algorithm, the AUV can autonomously focus on regions with rich target distribution and deviate from regions with sparse target distribution without prior knowledge of the task region. The quality and efficiency of the AUV-based surveys can be improved by focusing on the underwater detection area with high feature density. The DDBP algorithm includes two patterns: rough and fine scan, and the corresponding planning pattern is selected according to the distribution of the detected targets. AUV performs online PRP in the corresponding pattern according to the pre-identified strategy set. We conducted simulation experiments and selected sand waves and fish reefs as natural and artificial structures to conduct typical marine survey tests. Compared with the traditional marine survey method, the survey efficiency was increased by 33.6% and 29.6%, respectively, in the two DDBP survey experiments for sand waves; the efficiency increased by 32.9% and 36.7%, respectively, in the two groups of DDBP survey experiments on artificial reefs. The proposed general technical framework for online path planning driven by real-time observation data has good application prospects in underwater archaeology, rapid understanding of specific targets on the seafloor, and search of specific targets.
**2023**
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0952197622005383
### ==Autonomous underwater vehicle teams for adaptive ocean sampling: a data-driven approach==
The current technological developments in autonomous underwater vehicles (AUVs) and underwater communication have nowadays allowed to push the original idea of autonomous ocean sampling network even further, with the possibility of using each agent of the network not only as an operative component driven by external commands (model-driven) but as a reactive element able to act in response to changing conditions as measured during the exploration (data-driven). With this paper, we propose a novel data-driven algorithm for AUVs team for adaptive sampling of oceanic regions, where each agent shares its knowledge of the environment with its teammates and autonomously takes decision in order to reconstruct the desired oceanic field. In particular, sampling point selection is made in order to minimize the uncertainty in the estimated field while keeping communication contact with the rest of the team and avoiding to repeatedly sampling sub-regions already explored. The proposed approach is based on the use of the emergent behaviour technique and on the use of artificial potential functions (interest functions) to achieve the desired goal at the end of the mission. In this way, there is no explicit minimization of a cost functional at each decision step. The oceanic field is reconstructed by the application of radial basis functions interpolation of irregularly spaced data. A simulative example for the estimation of a salinity field with sea data obtained using the Mediterranean Sea Forecasting System is shown in the paper, in order to investigate the effect of the different uncertainty sources, including sea currents, on the behaviour of the exploration team and ultimately on the reconstruction of the salinity field.
**2011**
https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10236-011-0464-x
### ==A Modified ALOS Method of Path Tracking for AUVs with Reinforcement Learning Accelerated by Dynamic Data-Driven AUV Model==
Path tracking has a significant impact on the success of long-term autonomous underwater vehicle (AUV) missions in terms of safety, energy-saving, and efficiency. However, it is a challenging problem due to the model uncertainty, and ocean current disturbance. Moreover, the widely used line of sight (LOS) algorithm with fixed lookahead distance does not perform well because it requires an urgent need for the automatic adjustment of the parameter. Considering the above, this study proposes an adaptive line-of-sight (ALOS) guidance method with reinforcement learning (RL) based on the dynamic data-driven AUV model (DDDAM). Firstly, we introduced a detailed AUV dynamic model mainly including the models with and without current influence. Next, we conducted a detailed analysis of the path tracking error dynamics and the factors influencing the tracking performance based on the model proposed above. We then used the DDDAM (using long short-term memory (LSTM) neural network) to pre-train the RL framework to generate more samples for online learning in order to speed up the learning process. Finally, the deterministic policy gradient (DPG) based RL was designed to optimize the continuously varying lookahead distance considering the previously analyzed factors. Collectively, this paper presents simulation cases and an evaluation of the algorithm. Our results indicate that the proposed method significantly improves the performance of path tracking with effectiveness and robustness.
**2022**
https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10846-021-01504-0
### ==Data-driven selective sampling for marine vehicles using multi-scale paths==
This paper addresses adaptive coverage of a spatial field without prior knowledge. Our application in this paper is to cover a region of the sea surface using a robotic boat, although the algorithmic approach has wider applicability. We propose an anytime planning technique for efficient data gathering using point-sampling based on non-uniform data-driven coverage. Our goal is to sense a particular region of interest in the environment and be able to reconstruct the measured spatial field. Since there are autonomous agents involved, there is a need to consider the costs involved in terms of energy consumed and time required to finish the task. An ideal map of the scalar field requires complete coverage of the region, but can be approximated by a good sparse coverage strategy along with an efficient interpolation technique. We propose to optimize the trade off between the environmental field mapping and the costs (energy consumed, time spent, and distance traveled) associated with sensing. We present an anytime algorithm for sampling the environment adaptively by following a multi-scale path to produce a variable resolution map of the spatial field. We compare our approach to a traditional exhaustive survey approach and show that we are able to effectively represent a spatial field spending minimum energy. We present results that indicate our sampling technique gathering most informative samples with least travel. We validate our approach through simulations and test the system on real robots in the open ocean.
**2017**
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/8206511
### Dual-branch framework: AUV-based target recognition method for marine survey
Autonomous recognition of marine targets is considered a promising technology for autonomous underwater vehicle (AUV) marine survey, and AUV equipped with side-scan sonar (SSS) for recognition is the key to surveys. As a fundamental function, SSS recognition remains unsolved due to the challenging image conditions of SSS and insufficient algorithm robustness. This paper proposes an accurate and real-time dual-branch recognition framework containing segmentation and refinement branches. Firstly, the segmentation branch uses a lightweight learning network to analyze the data comprehensively. In this branch, we propose a densely connected local attention [recurrent](https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/engineering/recurrent "Learn more about recurrent from ScienceDirect's AI-generated Topic Pages") residual (LAR2) block as the backbone, and at the same time, an atrous convolution is introduced. This branch can focus on the features of interest in the image, ensuring better feature representation with low-resolution SSS information while guiding the next branch. Secondly, the refinement branch is to adjust the previous branch’s results and combines the low-level and high-level features. We propose holistic attention (HA) block in this branch, which can further improve the target recognition performance. Finally, we adopt the feature fusion method of bilinear pooling to integrate the results of the two branches to output a high-precision recognition image. In offline experiments and sea trials, our proposed method outperforms other competing algorithms in the four indicators of semantic segmentation, and achieves a computation speed of 92.66 ms (0.86 ms) per image on AUV dedicated hardware. The method has strong robustness, meets real-time performance, and can be widely used in AUV marine survey.
**2022**
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0952197622003396
### Unlocking the Power of Combined Autonomous Operations with Underwater and Surface Vehicles: Success with a Deep-Water Survey AUV and USV Mothership
The GEBCO-NF Alumni Team is an international team working on solution towards autonomous Ocean Mapping operations. The Team was initiated and led by alumni of the Nippon Foundation / GEBCO training program at the University of New Hampshire. The alumni worked closely with international partners and suppliers to develop and advance their concept created for the Shell Ocean Discovery XPRIZE. The Shell Ocean Discovery XPRIZE competition aimed to push the boundaries of ocean technologies by creating solutions to the grand challenge of mapping our oceans. The Shell Ocean Discovery XPRIZE challenge was to develop a complete system that could map 100 km 2 in 16 hours at 5 m horizontal resolution grid and produce images the elicited excitement in the general public. The designated survey area for the XPRIZE challenge could be up to 50 nautical miles offshore and operations had to be remotely coordinated from a land-based operation center. The entire mapping system had to fit into a standard 40-foot shipping container. The aim of the GEBCO-NF Alumni Team was to leverage existing technology, wherever possible, and to integrate them to achieve the competition requirements. Their strategic approach was to develop strong partnerships with technology and services providers to augment the hardware, integration and software needs of the Team. The GEBCO-NF Alumni Team conceived a two-system, Autonomous Underwater Vehicle (AUV) and Remote-controlled or Uncrewed Surface Vehicle (USV), concept to autonomously map the seafloor in a wide variety of ocean environments. The AUV-USV idea will lead to more efficient, safer and cost-effective seafloor mapping operations. Autonomous seafloor surveys, with remote AUV launch and recovery (human-in-the-loop) and with the USV autonomously tracking the AUV for a complete survey mission while being monitored from a remote shore station, were demonstrated to be a viable option for future offshore survey and inspection projects. The technology, proce...
**2018**
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/8558784
### Underwater Searching and Multiround Data Collection via AUV Swarms: An Energy-Efficient AoI-Aware MAPPO Approach
Autonomous underwater vehicles (AUVs) play a crucial role in data collection for underwater acoustic sensor networks (UWASNs). The limited capacity of individual AUV and the need for low-latency data collection necessitate the deployment of AUV swarms to achieve efficient and secure cooperative data collection. However, most existing works assume prior knowledge of sensor node locations, which is impractical in real-world AUV networks. Additionally, continuous data collection needs to be considered due to the sustained operation of sensors and cluster head replacement. To address these challenges, we propose a target uncertainty map assisted data collection scheme for AUV swarms based on the multiagent proximal policy optimization (MAPPO) algorithm. Specifically, the target uncertainty map is established by leveraging current and past search and collection results, guiding the AUV swarm to prioritize areas with higher probabilities of containing sensor nodes. Moreover, a digital pheromone mechanism incorporating repulsive and attractive pheromones is designed to establish an artificial potential field for adjusting the target uncertainty map. To further enable a comprehensive exploration of unknown environments, we introduce the Age of Information (AoI) as an indicator. Additionally, we consider the energy consumption associated with data collection to strike a balance between collection and energy efficiency, and derive a lower bound on the policy improvement achieved by the MAPPO algorithm. Simulation results have validated that the proposed scheme has a superior performance compared to the baselines, achieving an approximately 15% increase in the collection rate while reducing the energy consumption of data collection and AoI as well.
**2024**
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/10329958
### ==A survey of underwater areas using a group of AUVs==
Side scan sonar (SSS) is an effective search device for detection of the bottom objects and monitoring of underwater areas using an autonomous underwater vehicle (AUV). Automatic monitoring consists in search operation using SSS and subsequent survey of objects using photo-camera. In the case of a single AUV these steps are performed sequentially. For the AUV group these steps can be performed in parallel mode to reduce the time required for the monitoring. Detection of the particular objects on the acoustic images is performed using the next steps: gradient maps reconstruction, edges detection and objects classification using clustering procedures. Then coordinates are determined for the objects with particular characteristics. These coordinates are used to organize photo-observation of the detected objects by the same or another AUV (in the case of group work). Modeling of the monitoring process was performed using information, control and simulation system integrated in the AUV. All algorithms were realized as software modules suitable for use in AUV. The simulation results show the possibility of application of the developed algorithms for the real work.
**2017**
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/7890315
### Underwater Data Collection Using Robotic Sensor Networks
We examine the problem of utilizing an autonomous underwater vehicle (AUV) to collect data from an underwater sensor network. The sensors in the network are equipped with acoustic modems that provide noisy, range-limited communication. The AUV must plan a path that maximizes the information collected while minimizing travel time or fuel expenditure. We propose AUV path planning methods that extend algorithms for variants of the Traveling Salesperson Problem (TSP). While executing a path, the AUV can improve performance by communicating with multiple nodes in the network at once. Such multi-node communication requires a scheduling protocol that is robust to channel variations and interference. To this end, we examine two multiple access protocols for the underwater data collection scenario, one based on deterministic access and another based on random access. We compare the proposed algorithms to baseline strategies through simulated experiments that utilize models derived from experimental test data. Our results demonstrate that properly designed communication models and scheduling protocols are essential for choosing the appropriate path planning algorithms for data collection.
**2012**
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/6214701
### ==Strategic Deployment of AUVs for Data-Driven Exploration of Seafloor Massive Sulfides: Bridging Scales and Knowledge Gaps==
The discovery and characterization of Seafloor Massive Sulfides (SMS) present unique scientific and operational challenges due to their limited spatial distribution in deep and remote marine environments and complex three-dimensional structure. These deposits exhibit a significant heterogeneity in their compositions and morphologies, as well as variability of local geological contexts and host rock that manifest in a wide range of geophysical signatures. The importance of this type of deep-sea mineral deposits extends beyond their mineral content, playing a critical role in deep-sea ecosystems. Such intricate nature of these formations necessitates a methodical approach to their exploration. This paper outlines the use of AUVs as strategic assets, spanning the entire exploration spectrum from initial prospecting to groundtruthing. The study underscores a delicate balance between leveraging the technological capabilities of AUVs and recognizing the nuances and intricacies of the data they provide in the context of SMS exploration. The exploration success is increasingly driven by the comprehensiveness of data. The value of data, in turn, is considered both in terms of potential value gains with new information and the losses in value due to the absence of information.
**2024**
https://www.earthdoc.org/content/papers/10.3997/2214-4609.2024101816
### ==Data-driven trajectory tracking control for autonomous underwater vehicle based on iterative extended state observer==
In this study, we explore the precise trajectory tracking control problem of autonomous underwater vehicle (AUV) under the disturbance of the underwater environment. First, a model-free adaptive control (MFAC) is designed based on data-driven ideology and a full-form dynamic linearization (FFDL) method is utilized to online estimate time-varying parameter pseudo gradient (PG) to establish an equivalent data model of AUV motion. Second, the iterative extended state observer (IESO) scheme is designed to combine with FFDL-MFAC. Because the proposed novel controller is able to learn from repeated iterations, the proposed novel controller can estimate and compensate the model approximation error produced by external environmental unknown disturbance. Third, three-dimensional motion is decoupled into horizontal and vertical and a multi closed-loop control structure is designed that exhibits faster convergence rate and reduces sensitivity to parameter jumps than single closed-loop system. Finally, two simulation scenarios are designed featuring non external disturbance and Gaussian noise of signal-to-noise ratio of 90 dB. The simulation results reveal the superiority of FFDL. Furthermore, we adpot the technical parameters data of T-SEA I AUV to conduct numerical simulation, aunderwater trajectory as the tracking scenario and set waves to 0.5 m and current to 0.2 m/s to simulate Lv.2 ocean conditions of "International Ocean State Standard". The simulation results demonstrate the effectiveness and robustness of the proposed tracking control algorithm.
**2022**
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35240819/
### ==A Data-Driven Deployment and Planning Approach for Underactuated Vehicles in Marine Environments==
The study of a marine environment is a challenging task because of the spatio-temporal variations of ocean phenomena and the disturbances caused by ocean currents. As such, we must collect data over long time periods to better assess and understand marine environments. To achieve this, we investigate the long-term trajectories of inexpensive and underactuated drifting vehicles called drifters. These vehicles drift passively with ambient ocean currents. Vertical actuation (buoyancy) enables them to alter their depth and achieve controllability by the use of different current layers in the ocean. We aim to utilize these persistent assets to explore oceanic regions exhaustively; patrolling the surface, covering a 3-D phenomenon (e.g., algal bloom), or examining the seafloor with downward-facing cameras. In this article, we present a data-driven deployment and planning approach for the drifters. We extract the generalized flow pattern within a given region from ocean model predictions, develop a Markov chain-based motion model, and analyze the water flow behavior. Given an initial deployment location of the drifter on the water surface and the flow patterns within the region, our approach finds attractors and their transient groups at different depths as the persistent behavior of the environment. We then determine a minimum number of deployment locations for the drifters using these attractors and their transient groups. All possible reachable locations from the initial deployment location of the drifter are determined as its planned, long-term drifter trajectory based on the computed attractors and transient groups. An optimal navigation policy is developed to demonstrate the best possible action from any location to a goal location in the environment. Our simulation results based on data from ocean model predictions validate the variability in the persistent behavior of the environment and the long-term trajectory of the drifter over space and time. Preliminary resul...
**2020**
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/9137658
### Accurate trajectory tracking control of unknown autonomous underwater vehicles: A data-driven predictive approach
The adaptive tracking control of autonomous underwater vehicles (AUVs) under the conditions of unavailable kinetic dynamics is considered via developing a new data-driven adaptive predictive control (DAPC) method. By deploying the non-parametric DLT, a new data-based predictive model is first designed such that the unknown kinetic dynamics and nonlinearities in AUV system are efficiently handled. Then, a data-based predictive control law is further devised, and thereby the dynamics of the entire closed-loop AUV system can be appropriately regulated. Finally, numerical simulations pertaining to an underwater vehicle is given to validate the efficiency of the devised method.
**2021**
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/9455682
### ==Hierarchical probabilistic regression for AUV-based adaptive sampling of marine phenomena==
Marine phenomena such as algal blooms can be detected using in situ measurements onboard autonomous underwater vehicles (AUVs), but understanding plankton ecology and community structure requires retrieval and analysis of water specimens. This process requires shipboard or manual sample collection, followed by onshore lab analysis which is time-consuming. Better understanding of the relationship between the observable environmental features and organism abundance would allow more precisely targeted sampling and thereby save time. In this work, we present an approach to learn and improve models that predict this relationship. Coupled with recent advances in AUV technology allowing selective retrieval of water samples, this constitutes a new paradigm in biological sampling. We use organism abundance models along with spatial models of environmental features learned immediately after AUV deployments to compute spatial distributions of organisms in the coastal ocean purely from in situ AUV data. We use Gaussian process regression along with the unscented transform to fuse the two models, obtaining both the mean and variance of the organism abundance estimates. The uncertainty in organism abundance predictions is used in a sampling strategy to selectively acquire new water specimens that improves the organism abundance models. Simulation results are presented demonstrating the advantage of performing hierarchical probabilistic regression. After the validation through simulation, we show predictions of organism abundance from models learned on lab-analyzed water sample data, and AUV survey data.
**2013**
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/6631377
### ==Information-driven robotic sampling in the coastal ocean==
Efficient sampling of coastal ocean processes, especially mechanisms such as upwelling and internal waves and their influence on primary production, is critical for understanding our changing oceans. Coupling robotic sampling with ocean models provides an effective approach to adaptively sample such features. We present methods that capitalize on information from ocean models and in situ measurements, using Gaussian process modeling and objective functions, allowing sampling efforts to be concentrated to regions with high scientific interest. We demonstrate how to combine and correlate marine data from autonomous underwater vehicles, model forecasts, remote sensing satellite, buoy, and ship-based measurements, as a means to cross-validate and improve ocean model accuracy, in addition to resolving upper water-column interactions. Our work is focused on the west coast of Mid-Norway where significant influx of Atlantic Water produces a rich and complex physical–biological coupling, which is hard to measure and characterize due to the harsh environmental conditions. Results from both simulation and full-scale sea trials are presented.
**2018**
https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1002/rob.21805
### ==Sensor-Driven Online Coverage Planning for Autonomous Underwater Vehicles==
At present, autonomous underwater vehicle (AUV) mine countermeasure (MCM) surveys are normally preplanned by operators using ladder or zig-zag paths. Such surveys are conducted with side-looking sonar sensors whose performance is dependent on environmental, target, sensor, and AUV platform parameters. It is difficult to obtain precise knowledge of all of these parameters to be able to design optimal mission plans offline. This research represents the first known sensor driven online approach to seabed coverage for MCM. A method is presented where paths are planned using a multiobjective optimization. Information theory is combined with a new concept coined branch entropy based on a hexagonal cell decomposition. The result is a planning algorithm that not only produces shorter paths than conventional means, but is also capable of accounting for environmental factors detected in situ. Hardware-in-the-loop simulations and in water trials conducted on the IVER2 AUV show the effectiveness of the proposed method.
**2012**
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/6304931
### ==Randomized MPC for view planning in AUV seabed inspections==
Nowadays, AUVs are state-of-the-art technologies for seabed inspection of an area of interest to generate optical/acoustic mosaics, gather representative bathymetric data, or search for objects of interest. As a matter of fact, typically, inspection surveys are designed by skilled operators using a lawnmower or zig-zag patterns. Nevertheless, the outcomes are not predictable since the performance of exteroceptive sensors depends on environmental conditions, seafloor, and targets composition and shape. Thus, in the last years, sensor-driven planning strategies that actively consider the sensor acquisitions as feedback, avoiding multiple attempts, were proposed. This paper presents a sensor-driven planning solution based on a Randomized Model Predictive Control approach. The developed system simulates multiple AUV possible trajectories and selects the one that better steers the AUV toward non-explored regions. Moreover, a novel method based on the Kernel Density Estimation technique for fast evaluating the AUV trajectories is proposed. Realistic simulations are presented to validate the hereby proposed strategy.
**2022**
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/9705931
### An Overview of Machine Learning Techniques in Local Path Planning for Autonomous Underwater Vehicles
Autonomous underwater vehicles (AUVs) have become attractive and essential for underwater search and exploration because of the advantages they offer over manned underwater vehicles. Hence the need to improve AUV technologies. One crucial area of AUV technology involves efficiently solving the path planning problem. Several approaches have been identified from the literature for AUV global and local path planning. The use of machine learning (ML) techniques in overcoming some of the challenges associated with AUV path planning problems such as safety and obstacle avoidance, energy consumption, and optimal time and distance travelled remains an active research area. While there is literature on global and local path planning that explores different techniques, there is still a lack of paper that provides an overview of the application of ML for local path planning. Hence the main objective of this paper is to present an overview of the state-of-the-art application of ML techniques on local path planning for AUVs. The ML algorithms are discussed under supervised, unsupervised, and reinforcement learning. The challenges faced in real-life deployment, simulated scenarios, computational issues, and application of ML algorithms are discussed, with future research directions presented.
**2023**
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/10054374
### A survey on path planning for persistent autonomy of autonomous underwater vehicles
Recently, there has been growing interest in developing Autonomous Underwater Vehicle (AUV) to operate for longer mission durations as well as with higher levels of autonomy. This paper describes the current state of the art in methodologies to enable long range AUVs and provides a detailed literature review of some existing AUVs characterizing their operation endurance. [Path planning](https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/earth-and-planetary-sciences/trajectory-planning "Learn more about Path planning from ScienceDirect's AI-generated Topic Pages") is identified as the core and crucial components to improve AUV persistence. The aims of path optimization, path re-planning adapting to the dynamic environments, and cooperative path planning of multiple AUVs have received much attention from the research community. This paper presents a review of the main [research works](https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/engineering/research-work "Learn more about research works from ScienceDirect's AI-generated Topic Pages") focusing on these three technology areas. The main objective of this paper is to present a comprehensive survey of shape and properties of the path and optimization techniques for path planning. These techniques and algorithms have been classified into different classes and their assumptions and drawbacks have been discussed. Finally, the paper discusses the AUV literature in general and highlights challenges that need to be addressed in developing AUVs with advanced autonomy and capable of operating for longer mission durations.
**2015**
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0029801815005442
### Dynamic stochastic modeling for adaptive sampling of environmental variables using an AUV
Discharge of mine tailings significantly impacts the ecological status of the sea. Methods to efficiently monitor the extent of dispersion is essential to protect sensitive areas. By combining underwater robotic sampling with ocean models, we can choose informative sampling sites and adaptively change the robot’s path based on in situ measurements to optimally map the tailings distribution near a seafill. This paper creates a stochastic spatio-temporal proxy model of dispersal dynamics using training data from complex numerical models. The proxy model consists of a spatio-temporal Gaussian process model based on an advection–diffusion stochastic partial differential equation. Informative sampling sites are chosen based on predictions from the proxy model using an objective function favoring areas with high uncertainty and high expected tailings concentrations. A simulation study and data from real-life experiments are presented.
**2023**
https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10514-023-10095-8
### ==Real-time implementation of an online path replanner for an AUV operating in a dynamic and unexplored environment==
This study describes the implementation of an online path planner in an autonomous underwater vehicle (AUV) system by using an open-source system architecture, MOOS-IvP. The path planner employed a path replanning scheme and the selective differential evolution quantum-behaved [particle swarm optimization](https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/engineering/particle-swarm-optimization "Learn more about particle swarm optimization from ScienceDirect's AI-generated Topic Pages") (SDEQPSO) algorithm. The implementation was based on a modular framework to ensure the robustness of the path replanner during a mission. The performance of the path replanner was evaluated and verified under [stochastic processes](https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/earth-and-planetary-sciences/stochastic-process "Learn more about stochastic processes from ScienceDirect's AI-generated Topic Pages") in hardware-in-the-loop (HIL) tests, in which the replanner interacted with the onboard controllers and [actuators](https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/earth-and-planetary-sciences/actuator "Learn more about actuators from ScienceDirect's AI-generated Topic Pages") of an Explorer AUV. The experimental results showed the path replanner can be run seamlessly with the hardware onboard an Explorer AUV in real time to generate and continuously refine a safe and feasible path for a dynamic and unexplored environment.
**2020**
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0141118721004673
### Uncertainty-driven survey path planning for bathymetric mapping
We present a novel survey path planning technique which minimizes the robot's position uncertainty along the planned path while taking into account area coverage performance. The proposed technique especially targets bathymetric mapping applications and respects application constraints such as the desire to survey in parallel tracks and to avoid turns in the target area to maximize sonar measurements quality. While accounting for uncertainty in the survey planning process can lead to more accurate data products, existing survey planning tools typically ignore it. Our method bridges this gap using the saliency on an a priori map to predict how the terrain will affect the robot's belief at every point on the target area. Based on this magnitude, we provide an algorithm that computes the order in which to trace parallel tracks to cover the target area minimizing the overall uncertainty along the path. A particle filter keeps track of the robot's position uncertainty during the planning process and, in order to find useful loop-closures for mapping, crossing tracks that visit salient locations are added when the uncertainty surpasses a user-provided threshold. We test our method on real-world datasets collected off the coasts of Spain, Greece and Australia. We evaluate the expected robot's position uncertainty along the planned paths and assess their associated mapping performance using a bathymetric mapping algorithm. Results show that our method offers benefits over a standard lawnmower-type path both in terms of position uncertainty and map quality.
**2014**
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/6697228

### Path Planning of Autonomous Underwater Vehicles for Adaptive Sampling Using Mixed Integer Linear Programming
The goal of adaptive sampling in the ocean is to predict the types and locations of additional ocean measurements that would be most useful to collect. Quantitatively, what is most useful is defined by an objective function and the goal is then to optimize this objective under the constraints of the available observing network. Examples of objectives are better oceanic understanding, to improve forecast quality, or to sample regions of high interest. This work provides a new path-planning scheme for the adaptive sampling problem. We define the path-planning problem in terms of an optimization framework and propose a method based on mixed integer linear programming (MILP). The mathematical goal is to find the vehicle path that maximizes the line integral of the uncertainty of field estimates along this path. Sampling this path can improve the accuracy of the field estimates the most. While achieving this objective, several constraints must be satisfied and are implemented. They relate to vehicle motion, intervehicle coordination, communication, collision avoidance, etc. The MILP formulation is quite powerful to handle different problem constraints and flexible enough to allow easy extensions of the problem. The formulation covers single- and multiple-vehicle cases as well as single- and multiple-day formulations. The need for a multiple-day formulation arises when the ocean sampling mission is optimized for several days ahead. We first introduce the details of the formulation, then elaborate on the objective function and constraints, and finally, present a varied set of examples to illustrate the applicability of the proposed method.
**2008**
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/4768634
### Allocating AUVs for Mine Map Development in MCM
When cooperating AUVs are used for large area MCM, it is important for each vehicle to have a map of the entire search area. If each AW only has a map of the area it has covered, that information will he lost if the vehicle is lost. To build a complete coverage map in each A UV, a scheduling algorithm, language, and logic were developed. The scheduling algorithm is an optimized fuzzy logic system that assigns the formations AUVs to inspect MLOs while keeping the formation together. The language was developed to communicate the information needed to build a map and deal with the limited bandwidth of underwater communication. The vehicle logic takes the communicated information and compiles it into a map. The fuzzy logic scheduling algorithm significantly improved how the formation allocated its resources and the map generated in each of the vehicles closely matched the actual map.
**2006**
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/4393895
### ==Area Complete Coverage Path Planning for Offshore Seabed Organisms Fishing Autonomous Underwater Vehicle Based on Improved Whale Optimization Algorithm==
Autonomous underwater vehicles (AUVs) can replace human beings in seabed organisms fishing in complex and dangerous ocean environments, with high fishing efficiency and economic benefits. Therefore, the design of a reasonable area complete coverage path planning (CCPP) algorithm is the key technology for realization of autonomous fishing. To address this problem, this article proposes a new generalized complete coverage path planner. First, this planner discretizes the seabed topography of the fishing area and establishes a 2-D grid map model containing height information. Second, a global path planning algorithm based on the improved whale optimization algorithm (IWOA) is introduced, and a local path optimization is performed for the turning portion of the planned path based on the dynamics and fishing characteristics of offshore fishing AUV. Then, for the engineering practical problem that offshore fishing AUVs have limited self-contained energy and difficulty in energy replenishment, an adaptation fitness function with multiple constraints is established as the evaluation model of the optimal path by considering the length of the navigation path, turning angle, altitude change, as well as coverage and repetition rate. Finally, the performance of the proposed CCPP algorithm is simulated and verified.
**2024**
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/10461979
### ==A Survey of Cell Decomposition-based Path Planning==
In this article, six obstacle-avoidance path planners are introduced to find the free path in the Euclidean plane with obstacles. Using the Dijkstra’s shortest path algorithm in a connected graph, this study discusses six path planners based on cell decompositions of the free space (obstacle avoidance space) and uses their centroids to plan the shortest free path from the start point to the end point. The six free path planners include: trapezoid decomposition, wavefront decomposition, polygon decomposition, windmill decomposition, brushfire decomposition and delaunay triangulation. In this research, we compare the time and space complexities of connected graph and advantages and disadvantages of each path planner.
**2023**
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/10303086
### Target-aware Informative Path Planning and semantic occupancy mapping for AUV autonomous inspections
This paper introduces an innovative methodology for enabling AUVs to explore an area of interest while simultaneously look for and localize OPIs. A probabilistic semantic occupancy mapping solution that fuses an FLS-based mapping solution and a CNN-based ATR strategy has been designed. In detail. it permits to includes the knowledge about the presence of the OPIs by using the ATR findings. The semantic map enables the Informative Path Planning algorithm to generate paths that cover the area of interest and simultaneously reduces the target localization uncertainty. Therefore, this methodology allows an AUV to meaningfully perceive and model the solution surroundings and autonomously conduct inspections surveys. The proposed solution has been validated with realistic simulations made by means of the Unmanned Underwater Vehicle Simulator, where a dynamic model of FeelHippo AUV was implemented.
**2022**
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9965871

### Underwater Exploration and Mapping
This paper analyzes the open challenges of exploring and mapping in the underwater realm with the goal of identifying research opportunities that will enable an Autonomous Underwater Vehicle (AUV) to robustly explore different environments. A taxonomy of environments based on their 3D structure is presented together with an analysis on how that influences the camera placement. The difference between exploration and coverage is presented and how they dictate different motion strategies. Loop closure, while critical for the accuracy of the resulting map, proves to be particularly challenging due to the limited field of view and the sensitivity to viewing direction. Experimental results of enforcing loop closures in underwater caves demonstrate a novel navigation strategy. Dense 3D mapping, both online and offline, as well as other sensor configurations are discussed following the presented taxonomy. Experimental results from field trials illustrate the above analysis.
**2022**
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9965805

### An Uncertainty-driven Sampling-based Online Coverage Path Planner for Seabed Mapping using Marine Robots
Seabed mapping is a common application for marine robots, and it is often framed as a coverage path planning problem in robotics. During a robot-based survey, the coverage of perceptual sensors (e.g., cameras, LIDARS and sonars) changes, especially in underwater environments. Therefore, online path planning is needed to accommodate the sensing changes in order to achieve the desired coverage ratio. In this paper, we present a sensing confidence model and a uncertainty-driven sampling-based online coverage path planner (SO-CPP) to assist in-situ robot planning for seabed mapping and other survey-type applications. Different from conventional lawnmower pattern, the SO-CPP will pick random points based on a probability map that is updated based on in-situ sonar measurements using a sensing confidence model. The SO-CPP then constructs a graph by connecting adjacent nodes with edge costs determined using a multi-variable cost function. Finally, the SO-CPP will select the best route and generate the desired waypoint list using a multi-variable objective function. The SO-CPP has been evaluated in a simulation environment with an actual bathymetric map, a 6-DOF AUV dynamic model and a ray-tracing sonar model. We have performed Monte Carlo simulations with a variety of environmental settings to validate that the SO-CPP is applicable to a convex workspace, a non-convex workspace, and unknown occupied workspace. So-CPP is found outperform regular lawnmower pattern survey by reducing the resulting traveling distance by upto 20%. Besides that, we observed that the prior knowledge about the obstacles in the environment has minor effects on the overall traveling distance. In the paper, limitation and real-world implementation are also discussed along with our plan in the future.
**2022**
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9965886

### An Improved BA* Based Collaborative Coverage Path Planning Method for Multiple Unmanned Surface Mapping Vehicles
The main emphasis of this work is placed on the problem of collaborative coverage path planning for unmanned surface mapping vehicles (USMVs). As a result, the collaborative coverage improved BA∗ algorithm ( CCIBA∗ ) is proposed. In the algorithm, coverage path planning for a single vehicle is achieved by task decomposition and level map updating. Then a multiple USMV collaborative behavior strategy is designed, which is composed of area division, recall and transfer, area exchange and recognizing obstacles. Moverover, multiple USMV collaborative coverage path planning can be achieved. Consequently, a high-efficiency and high-quality coverage path for USMVs can be implemented. Water area simulation results indicate that our CCIBA∗ brings about a substantial increase in the performances of path length, number of turning, number of units and coverage rate.
**2022**
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9774958

### Online Coverage Planning for an Autonomous Weed Mowing Robot With Curvature Constraints
Thearea used for grazing cattle constitutes about one-third of the land in United States. In this paper, we present the design of Cowbot, an autonomous weed mowing robot for maintaining cow pastures. Cowbot is designed to operate in rugged environments and provides a cost-effective method for weed control in cow pastures. Path planning for the Cowbot is challenging since weed distribution on pastures is unknown. Given an onboard sensor with a limited field of view, online planning is necessary to detect weeds and plan paths to mow them. We study the general online coverage planning problem for an autonomous mower with curvature and field of view constraints. We develop two algorithms that are able to utilize new information on weed detection to optimize path length and ensure coverage. We deploy our algorithms on the Cowbot and perform field experiments to validate the suitability of our methods for real-time path planning. We also perform extensive simulation experiments which show that our algorithms result in up to 60% reduction in path length as compared to boustrophedon and random-search based coverage paths.
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9720982

### PathBench: A Benchmarking Platform for Classical and Learned Path Planning Algorithms
Path planning is a key component in mobile robotics. A wide range of path planning algorithms exist, but few attempts have been made to benchmark the algorithms holistically or unify their interface. Moreover, with the recent advances in deep neural networks, there is an urgent need to facilitate the development and benchmarking of such learning-based planning algorithms. This paper presents PathBench, a platform for developing, visualizing, training, testing, and benchmarking of existing and future, classical and learned 2D and 3D path planning algorithms, while offering support for Robot Operating System (ROS). Many existing path planning algorithms are supported; e.g. A*, wavefront, rapidly-exploring random tree, value iteration networks, gated path planning networks; and integrating new algorithms is easy and clearly specified. We demonstrate the benchmarking capability of PathBench by comparing implemented classical and learned algorithms for metrics, such as path length, success rate, computational time and path deviation. These evaluations are done on built-in PathBench maps and external path planning environments from video games and real world databases. PathBench is open source 1 .
**2021**
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9469507
### Review on path planning methods for autonomous underwater vehicle
Autonomous Underwater Vehicles (AUVs) have obtained a significant role in recent years due to their potential in oceanographic and marine research, as well as in industries such as oil and gas exploration and environmental monitoring. Technology has evolved significantly since its inception in the 19th century, with modern AUVs capable of operating at great depths for extended periods. This review paper provides an overview of the latest advancements in the domain of AUVs path planning. One of the critical challenges for AUVs is navigation in the complex and unpredictable marine environment and AUVs must overcome obstacles such as reefs, rocks, and shipwrecks to reach their destination. The paper focuses on the difficulties AUVs face in the ocean environment, mainly related to path planning. It emphasizes path planning with an optimal solution from the origin point to the final point. The path planning method is classified into two parts, global and local, to handle static and known obstacles and dynamic and unknown obstacles, respectively. This review paper has discussed the several path-planning methods for AUV, and strategies deployed for validating them through experimentation and simulation. The paper ends with a recommendation for future research on the path planning of AUVs.
**2024**
https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/abs/10.1177/14750902241263250?ai=1gvoi&mi=3ricys&af=R
### Multi-AUV coverage path planning algorithm using side-scan sonar for maritime search
Coverage search is widely applied in the maritime military and civilian fields. To improve search efficiency and detection accuracy, we propose an effective and rapid multi-autonomous [underwater vehicle](https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/social-sciences/underwater-vehicles "Learn more about underwater vehicle from ScienceDirect's AI-generated Topic Pages") (AUV) coverage [path planning](https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/earth-and-planetary-sciences/trajectory-planning "Learn more about path planning from ScienceDirect's AI-generated Topic Pages") (ER-MCPP) algorithm using side-scan sonar (SSS). First, the given search region was optimized and modeled using grid decomposition. Next, a [Voronoi diagram](https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/physics-and-astronomy/voronoi-diagram "Learn more about Voronoi diagram from ScienceDirect's AI-generated Topic Pages") was used to divide and allocate the regions according to the initial position of the AUV. Subsequently, based on the idea of guidance, navigation, and control (GNC), a coverage search algorithm for a single AUV was proposed, including a path planning method combining improved lawn [mower](https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/agricultural-and-biological-sciences/mowers "Learn more about mower from ScienceDirect's AI-generated Topic Pages") and outward-spiral methods, an [integrated navigation](https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/earth-and-planetary-sciences/integrated-navigation "Learn more about integrated navigation from ScienceDirect's AI-generated Topic Pages") method based on Kalman filtering, and a path tracking method considering [ocean currents](https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/earth-and-planetary-sciences/ocean-currents "Learn more about ocean currents from ScienceDirect's AI-generated Topic Pages"). In addition, we proposed a fault-tolerant control method. When an AUV fails unexpectedly, the other AUVs can accomplish a coverage search for the region through cooperation. Simulation experiments were performed using the MATLAB software. The results demonstrate that the proposed algorithm is valid. Compared with other methods, our algorithm has better robustness, finds targets more rapidly, and has a higher search efficiency. The practicality of the proposed algorithm is verified through [field tests](https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/engineering/field-test "Learn more about field tests from ScienceDirect's AI-generated Topic Pages").
**2024**
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0029801824007339
### Unlocking the Ocean 6G: A Review of Path-Planning Techniques for Maritime Data Harvesting Assisted by Autonomous Marine Vehicles
Seamless integration of both terrestrial and non-terrestrial networks is crucial to providing full-dimensional wireless and ubiquitous coverage, particularly catering to those engaged in marine activities. Compared to terrestrial networks, wireless communications in the marine domain are still not satisfactory for ubiquitous connectivity. Featuring agile maneuverability and strong adaptive capability, autonomous marine vehicles (AMVs) play a pivotal role in enhancing communication coverage by relaying or collecting data. However, path planning for maritime data harvesting is one of the most critical issues to enhance transmission efficiency while ensuring safe sailing for AMVs; yet it has rarely been discussed under this context. This paper provides a comprehensive and holistic overview of path-planning techniques custom-tailored for the purpose of maritime data collection. Specifically, we commence with a general portrayal of fundamental models, including system architectures, problem formulations, objective functions, and associated constraints. Subsequently, we summarize the various algorithms, methodologies, platforms, tools, coding environments, and their practical implementations for addressing these models. Furthermore, we delve into the burgeoning applications of path planning in the realm of maritime data harvesting and illuminate potential avenues for upcoming research endeavors. We believe that future research may focus on developing techniques to adapt more intricate and uncertain scenarios, such as sensor failures, inaccurate state estimations, complete modeling of communication channels, ocean dynamics, and application of heterogeneous systems.
https://www.mdpi.com/2077-1312/12/1/126

### Multi-USV cooperative path planning by window update based self-organizing map and spectral clustering
Unmanned [surface vehicles](https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/earth-and-planetary-sciences/surface-vehicle "Learn more about surface vehicles from ScienceDirect's AI-generated Topic Pages") (USVs) have shown tremendous application prospects recently. In this paper, a hierarchical two-layer framework is proposed for the cooperative [path planning](https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/earth-and-planetary-sciences/trajectory-planning "Learn more about path planning from ScienceDirect's AI-generated Topic Pages") of multi-USV system in complex marine environments. The whole framework incorporates the low-level layer planning the optimal path for each USV, and the high-level layer assigning targets for the multi-USV system. First, to avoid collisions and [access multiple](https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/physics-and-astronomy/multiple-access "Learn more about access multiple from ScienceDirect's AI-generated Topic Pages") targets in the optimal sequence, an improved self-organizing map (SOM) based on window update is proposed. The energy cost is calculated to evaluate the path planning results and construct a similarity graph. Then, the spectral clustering method is utilized based on the customized graph to determine the allocated targets which each USV should access in the low-level layer. Finally, a double smoothing strategy based on B-spline is proposed, and the line-of-sight (LOS) guidance method and [active disturbance rejection control](https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/engineering/active-disturbance-rejection-control "Learn more about active disturbance rejection control from ScienceDirect's AI-generated Topic Pages") (ADRC) controller are used to achieve accurate tracking of paths by USV. The simulation results in various scenarios validate the feasibility and effectiveness of our method for multi-USV cooperation, as well as path traceability.
**2023**
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0029801823005243

### Intelligent Path Planning Technologies of Underwater Vehicles: a Review
Underwater vehicles are important tools for marine resource exploration and exert important effects in civil and military fields. Path planning is an important part in the field of underwater vehicle control. At present, graph searching-type algorithms, sampling-based algorithms, and potential field-based algorithms have been widely used in the field of path planning. However, traditional methods exhibit poor adaptability to a dynamically unstructured environment. With the rapid development of artificial intelligence, artificial intelligence methods centering on machine learning have been gradually applied to the field of path planning and have shown advantages in terms of adaptability to an unstructured environment. The emphasis laid on the intelligent path planning technologies and the characteristics of these technologies or algorithms used in the present underwater vehicle path planning were introduced in detail in this work. The collaborative and coverage path planning technology of underwater vehicles were summarized. Aiming at the problems existing in current path planning of underwater vehicles, the final development direction of them is prospected.
**2023**
https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10846-022-01794-y

### Dynamic Navigation and Area Assignment of Multiple USVs Based on Multi-Agent Deep Reinforcement Learning
The unmanned surface vehicle (USV) has attracted more and more attention because of its basic ability to perform complex maritime tasks autonomously in constrained environments. However, the level of autonomy of one single USV is still limited, especially when deployed in a dynamic environment to perform multiple tasks simultaneously. Thus, a multi-USV cooperative approach can be adopted to obtain the desired success rate in the presence of multi-mission objectives. In this paper, we propose a cooperative navigating approach by enabling multiple USVs to automatically avoid dynamic obstacles and allocate target areas. To be specific, we propose a multi-agent deep reinforcement learning (MADRL) approach, i.e., a multi-agent deep deterministic policy gradient (MADDPG), to maximize the autonomy level by jointly optimizing the trajectory of USVs, as well as obstacle avoidance and coordination, which is a complex optimization problem usually solved separately. In contrast to other works, we combined dynamic navigation and area assignment to design a task management system based on the MADDPG learning framework. Finally, the experiments were carried out on the Gym platform to verify the effectiveness of the proposed method.
**2022**
https://www.mdpi.com/1424-8220/22/18/6942

### Sensor-driven autonomous underwater inspections: A receding-horizon RRT-based view planning solution for AUVs
Autonomous Underwater Vehicles (AUVs) are used by the scientific community for various applications, from collecting well-distributed high-quality data to mapping the seafloor or exploring unknown areas. Nonpredictable environmental conditions and sensor acquisitions make the design of AUV surveys challenging even for expert operators. Multiple attempts are required, and the collected data quality is not guaranteed: The AUV passively stores the sensors' acquisitions that are then analyzed offline after its recovery. In Forward-Looking SONAR (FLS) seabed inspections, the vehicle follows lawnmower paths designed by an expert operator that considers the sensor characteristics. The performance of FLSs is affected by several environmental conditions and possible protruding objects. This paper presents a probabilistic framework for FLS-based seabed inspections that endow the AUV with the ability to autonomously conducting the survey and ensure adequate coverage of the target area. A three-dimensional probabilistic occupancy mapping system for FLS reconstructions to update the covered area map was developed. The map is used by the Coverage Path Planning (CPP) algorithm to evaluate the visibility of the viewpoints that are generated as nodes of a random tree. The Next-Best Viewpoint (NBV) is selected as the first node in the branch expected to collect more data, and the path to reach the NBV is computed using the rapidly exploring random tree (RRT*) algorithm. The sensor-driven coverage approach is used in a receding-horizon manner. The proposed Receding-Horizon Coverage Approach was validated with simulations and real prerecorded data. Finally, the framework was used online during an experimental campaign where several FLS seabed inspections were performed.
**2022**
https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1002/rob.22061

### A new fast estimating floor region based on image segmentation for smart rovers
In this paper, a new algorithm that hardware acceleration has enabled to estimate floor regions in a single image for unmanned ground vehicle (UGV) robots is presented. In general, the cluttered indoor surroundings patterned floors, shadows, and reflections make it extremely difficult to identify floor regions. The proposed algorithm combines extracting surface texture characteristics with specific geometric areas to determine object boundaries and then uses SVM classification to distinguish between the floor and non-floor regions. To achieve real-time performance, the implementation of the proposed algorithm on an SoC FPGA embedded platform gives a heterogeneous hardware acceleration methodology. In experimental results, a public MIT scene dataset and indoor database were used to verify detection accuracy. Compared to other research, the proposed algorithm accuracy can reach up to 94.72% on average without the assistance of any other physical sensors, such as RGB-D or laser ranger sensors.
**2022**
https://ietresearch.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1049/ipr2.12500

### A prior information-based coverage path planner for underwater search and rescue using autonomous underwater vehicle (AUV) with side-scan sonar
The coverage path planning (CPP) technique attracts growing interest in studies on underwater search and rescue (SAR) conducted with an autonomous underwater vehicle (AUV) equipped with a side-scan sonar (SSS). In SAR missions, prior information is crucial. Aiming at the underwater SAR mission with prior information, a new coverage path planner (SAR-A*) is proposed. The ultimate goal is to generate a feasible path for completely covering the task area and preferentially visiting more valuable cells with fewer turns. First, the whole task area is decomposed into hexagon cells as waypoints to be visited for complete coverage. Second, the probability of discovering the target is obtained according to the target presence probability and the SSS detection ability. Under the assumption of prior target information, the target presence probability is modelled as a two-dimension Gaussian distribution based on predicted target locations or trajectories. Then, an optimal next-waypoint selection process is formulated as a multi-objective decision-making problem and solved by the weighted metric method. Finally, simulation and experimental results demonstrate that the generated path can improve the cumulative probability of discovering the target with fewer turns.
**2022**
https://ietresearch.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1049/rsn2.12256
### Real-time implementation of an online path replanner for an AUV operating in a dynamic and unexplored environment
This study describes the implementation of an online path planner in an autonomous underwater vehicle (AUV) system by using an open-source system architecture, MOOS-IvP. The path planner employed a path replanning scheme and the selective differential evolution quantum-behaved [particle swarm optimization](https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/engineering/particle-swarm-optimization "Learn more about particle swarm optimization from ScienceDirect's AI-generated Topic Pages") (SDEQPSO) algorithm. The implementation was based on a modular framework to ensure the robustness of the path replanner during a mission. The performance of the path replanner was evaluated and verified under [stochastic processes](https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/earth-and-planetary-sciences/stochastic-process "Learn more about stochastic processes from ScienceDirect's AI-generated Topic Pages") in hardware-in-the-loop (HIL) tests, in which the replanner interacted with the onboard controllers and [actuators](https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/earth-and-planetary-sciences/actuator "Learn more about actuators from ScienceDirect's AI-generated Topic Pages") of an Explorer AUV. The experimental results showed the path replanner can be run seamlessly with the hardware onboard an Explorer AUV in real time to generate and continuously refine a safe and feasible path for a dynamic and unexplored environment.
**2022**
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0141118721004673
### AUV path planning for coverage search of static target in ocean environment
Aiming at the [path planning](https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/earth-and-planetary-sciences/trajectory-planning "Learn more about path planning from ScienceDirect's AI-generated Topic Pages") problem for searching static target by autonomous underwater vehicles (AUVs) in ocean environment, this paper proposes a hierarchical method based on the maximum cumulative detection reward or search efficiency. First, the mission sea region is described in the form of [target probability](https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/engineering/target-probability "Learn more about target probability from ScienceDirect's AI-generated Topic Pages") map, and the [subregions](https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/engineering/subregions "Learn more about subregions from ScienceDirect's AI-generated Topic Pages") with high search value are extracted by the method of expectation-maximization (EM). For multiple AUVs, we propose the bidirectional negotiation with biased min-consensus (BN-BMC) algorithm to determine the allocation and prioritization of subregions to be searched. On this basis, we utilize an adaptive oval spiral coverage (AOSC) strategy to plan the coverage path within each subregion, and take the Dubins path satisfying the AUV kinematic constraint as the transition path between subregions. Finally, the simulation results validate the advantage of our method.
**2021**
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0029801821013809
### Control architecture of autonomous underwater vehicle for coverage mission in irregular region
This paper proposes a control architecture of autonomous underwater vehicle (AUV) for coverage mission in irregular region (CMIR) with an improved task planner. The CMIR control architecture is structured in four layers: perception layer, reactive layer, [decision making](https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/agricultural-and-biological-sciences/decision-making "Learn more about decision making from ScienceDirect's AI-generated Topic Pages") layer and execution layer. To improve the task planner in decision making layer of control architecture, we adopted convex partitioning method and Success-History Based Adaptive [Differential Evolution Algorithm](https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/computer-science/differential-evolution-algorithm "Learn more about Differential Evolution Algorithm from ScienceDirect's AI-generated Topic Pages") (SHADE) including linear [population size](https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/agricultural-and-biological-sciences/population-size "Learn more about population size from ScienceDirect's AI-generated Topic Pages") reduction (L-SHADE) as the computing engine, which make CMIR control architecture more suitable to coverage problems. Through statistical analysis, we obtained a set of optimized [control parameters](https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/computer-science/control-parameter "Learn more about control parameters from ScienceDirect's AI-generated Topic Pages"). Simulation experiments were carried out, three task planners were compared in terms [of convergence speed](https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/computer-science/speed-convergence "Learn more about of convergence speed from ScienceDirect's AI-generated Topic Pages"), optimized path length and computing time consumption. The results show that the coverage efficiency of the task planner based on L-SHADE is higher than that of task planner based on [particle swarm optimization](https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/physics-and-astronomy/particle-swarm-optimization "Learn more about particle swarm optimization from ScienceDirect's AI-generated Topic Pages") (PSO) and differential evolution (DE). Sea trial was performed with Sailfish-AUV, which proved that the CMIR control architecture is feasible in actual marine environment.
**2021**
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0029801821008179#:~:text=The%20CMIR%20control%20architecture%20is,making%20layer%20and%20execution%20layer.
## Thesises
### ==Robust online adaptive sensor-driven survey planning for single and multiple autonomous underwater vehicles==
https://unbscholar.lib.unb.ca/items/6a3667bb-0b4c-4f1e-8c29-305335d48eb8

### ==Information-driven cooperative approaches for AUVs seabed surveying==
https://tesidottorato.depositolegale.it/handle/20.500.14242/130407
### ==Data-driven Approaches to Uncertainty Modelling for SLAM in the Open Sea==
https://www.diva-portal.org/smash/record.jsf?pid=diva2%3A1713621&dswid=-4491
## Books
### Simultaneous Localization and Mapping in Marine Environments
https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-1-4614-5659-9_8?fromPaywallRec=false
### Emerging Mapping Techniques for Autonomous Underwater Vehicles (AUVs)
https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-319-25121-9_2?fromPaywallRec=true
###  Underwater Robotic Technology for Imaging Mesophotic Coral Ecosystems
https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-319-92735-0_51?fromPaywallRec=true
### Landscape-Level Imaging of Benthic Environments in Optically-Deep Waters
https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-319-25121-9_10?fromPaywallRec=true